now Joe Biden's visit is part of a huge
International diplomatic effort to keep
the conflict from drawing in other
Regional actors the Turkish government
led by President reup Ty erdogan was one
of the first last week to offer
mediation officials in anara say they're
involved in negotiations to release the
199 people abducted by Hamas from Israel
on October 7th but efforts are being
Complicated by the escalating violence
in Gaza which is also Echo echoed on
Turkish streets where than 60 people
were reportedly injured during a major
protest in Istanbul on Tuesday our
correspondent Yulia Han has
more it's been a night of Rage here in
Istanbul Police use tear gas and water
cannon to disperse crowds protesting
outside the Israeli consulate some tried
to storm the building others through
fireworks and Stones the protesters
blame Israel for the deadly blast at a
hospital in Gaza
City we feel deeply sorry for the
Palestinians they are not alone we are
with
them people are being killed in hospital
women's and CH women and children you
got to wake up the Palestinian people
have been struggling for the last 70
years and you turn a blind eye on
them
Turkish president Reb T ardogan was also
quick to assign blame he called the
hospital blast quote the latest example
of Israel's attacks devoid of the most
basic human
values meanwhile the Israeli military
says it can prove that a rocket launched
by the Palestinian militant group
Islamic Jihad is to blame Islamic Jihad
was responsible in any case consequences
for ties between turkey and Israel could
be be dire we did an immediate review
recently Adan has been working to repair
relations with Israel which have long
suffered from his support for the
Palestinians a few weeks ago at the UN
General Assembly in New York he even met
prime minister Benyamin Netanyahu in
person for the first time but now the
fragile rapoon could be
over what we're starting to see
increasingly is erdogan and the
government of turkey taking a very
strong anti- already position to the
extent that I think eron is more
interested in abandoning this so-called
lukewarm roson which was never credible
and realistic to begin with one of the
major reasons analysts say is adan's
relationship with the islamist Hamas
just in July he held talks with hamas's
political leader isma Han in Ankara the
two men have met many times over the
years and Israel has accused turkey of
providing a safe haven to members of the
group during his more than two decades
in power Edan has always been a fervent
supporter of the Palestinian cause and
it resonates well with many here in
Turkey to this day he refuses to
classify Hamas as a terrorist
organization unlike most of his Western
allies along with Iran and Qatar turkey
is is a central actor that enables
hamas's activities on an international
scale you know erdogan moved
systematically to essentially ensure
that Hamas found office space uh
diplomatic recognition and harboring of
Hamas leaders and operators inside of
turkey following hamas's atrocities in
Israel on October 7th adwin has been
trying to use his ties with the militant
group to play a mediating role Turkish
officials say they are negotiating the
release of hostages held by Hamas in the
Gaza Strip but how much influence does
adan's government have that remains to
be seen my my own view on this would be
suggest that turkey's influence with
Hamas um is negligible but also turkey
offering itself as a mediator between
Israel and the Hamas authorities is in
insincere simply because turkey's
relationship with Israel is is tenuous
at best the Israeli government and
Israeli authorities do not trust the
intentions of
Arana while Pro Palestinian groups are
calling for more protests in the coming
days Israel has told its citizens to
leave turkey immediately amid fears of
reprisal
attacks so let's first talk to Yulia Han
she's our correspondent in Istanbul
Julia what can you tell us about the
protests in
Turkey well turkey is a country with a
predominantly Muslim population so
historically there has always been a lot
of solidarity with and support for the
Palestinian people for their
humanitarian situation their suffering
and that often comes with anti-israeli
sentiment um but the question is to
which extent is that being used for
politically for political mobilization
particularly in the current uh conflict
and uh the Gaza hos Hospital blasts
really has uh pushed public anger here
to a new level many people directly
blame Israel without questioning even
though the Israeli military says a
failed rocket launched by islamists
inside Gaza is to blame the Turkish
president was also very quick to speak
of an Israeli attack he has now declared
three days of national mourning in
support with the and solidarity with the
Palestinian uh victims and for the past
two nights we have seen protests outside
the Israeli consulate here in Istanbul
and in other Turkish cities turn violent
with dozens of people injured uh during
many of these protests you can also hear
outspoken support for Hamas and uh the
Israeli government has issued a new
travel warning for turkey calling on its
citizens to leave the country as soon as
possible so tensions are running very
high and amidst this the Turkish
government has offered to mediate in the
conflict between Israel and uh Hamas
given what you've just told me the
protests and the statements that the
government's been making would the
Turkish government be regarded as an
honest broker as a as a fair
mediator well Turkish president ad and
you have to know even though he's been
recently trying to mend long strained
ties with Israel he has always been a
fervent supporter of the Palestinian
cause and he does not consider Hamas as
a terrorist organization unlike most of
his Western allies in the US uh the EU
that being said yes he was one of the
first leaders to offer mediation
um there have been many diplomatic calls
with regional and global leaders the
Turkish government is calling for a
humanitarian ceasefire and they say they
are negotiating with Hamas for the
release of hostages held by the
islamists inside the Gaza Strip but as
you just said uh analysts I spoke with
have doubts uh first of all over how
much influence turkey really has over
Hamas uh if you compare it to for
example to Qatar or Iran then of course
the second big question since this
conflict now is casting a huge Shadow
over Turkish Israeli relations do uh the
Israelis the Israeli government do they
consider turkey to be an honest broker
and there are doubts as as as you
mentioned Julia thank you very much that
was our correspondent juliaan in
Istanbul